doc/attribute-types/boolean.md, before:

# boolean({default, required})

Defines an attribute as being a boolean.

```ts
export const Todo: PartialSchema = {
  name: "Todo",
  attributes: {
    complete: boolean({ required: true }),
  },
}
```

## Parameters

- `default` [{Boolean}] - The default value of the attribute. Example: `boolean({default: true})`
- `required` [{Boolean=false}] - If the attribute must be provided.

## Database and Sequelize Behavior

The `boolean` type will create a sequelize [DataTypes.BOOLEAN](https://sequelize.org/docs/v6/core-concepts/model-basics/#boolean) column.

## Middleware Behavior

### Querying Data

For booleans, use `true`, `false`, and `null` in your queries as follows:

```js
GET /todos?complete=true  // all complete todos
GET /todos?complete=null  // all todos with null as the complete value
GET /todos?complete=false // all false todos
```

Any other value will return a service error.

Checkout the [compatibility table](../filtering-data/filtering-data.md#compatibility) for what operators can be used with booleans.

### Data Response

Boolean data will be returned as `true`, `false`, or `null` as follows:

```js
{
  data: {
    ...
    attributes: {
      complete: true
    }
  }
}
```

### Mutating Data

When creating or updating a boolean attribute, `true`, `false`, or `null` must be provided. Any other value will return a service error.

## React Rest Behavior

Similar to the middleware, you MUST provide react rest models a `true`, `false`, or `null` value. Likewise, they will always return these values:

```ts
Todo.createOne({ attributes: { complete: true } })

const [todo, todoMeta] = hatchedReactRest.Todo.useOne({ id })
todo.complete //-> true, false or null
```

## Grid Behavior

The text `true` or `false` will be presented in the grid. If the value is `null`, no value will be presented in the grid.

![Grid Example](https://github.com/bitovi/hatchify/assets/78602/ddbf26a1-180b-4fc7-a483-fde52dc4fce9)

## Form Behavior

`boolean()` will produce a [`<input type=checkbox>`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/input/checkbox) control. `null` will be treated as unchecked.

## Query string behavior

If `required` is `false`, filtering `null` values is handled like the following:
`filter[complete][$eq]=%00` where `%00` represents the encoded `null` value, or `filter[complete][$eq]=null`.

Commit message:

update the docs for string and boolean filters

doc/attribute-types/boolean.md, after:

# boolean({default, required})

Defines an attribute as being a boolean.

```ts
export const Todo: PartialSchema = {
  name: "Todo",
  attributes: {
    complete: boolean({ required: true }),
  },
}
```

## Parameters

- `default` [{Boolean}] - The default value of the attribute. Example: `boolean({default: true})`
- `required` [{Boolean=false}] - If the attribute must be provided.

## Database and Sequelize Behavior

The `boolean` type will create a sequelize [DataTypes.BOOLEAN](https://sequelize.org/docs/v6/core-concepts/model-basics/#boolean) column.

## Middleware Behavior

### Querying Data

For booleans, use `true`, `false`, and `null` in your queries as follows:

```js
GET /todos?complete=true  // all complete todos
GET /todos?complete=null  // all todos with null as the complete value
GET /todos?complete=false // all false todos
```

Any other value will return a service error.

Checkout the [compatibility table](../filtering-data/filtering-data.md#compatibility) for what operators can be used with booleans.

### Data Response

Boolean data will be returned as `true`, `false`, or `null` as follows:

```js
{
  data: {
    ...
    attributes: {
      complete: true
    }
  }
}
```

### Mutating Data

When creating or updating a boolean attribute, `true`, `false`, or `null` must be provided. Any other value will return a service error.

## React Rest Behavior

Similar to the middleware, you MUST provide react rest models a `true`, `false`, or `null` value. Likewise, they will always return these values:

```ts
Todo.createOne({ attributes: { complete: true } })

const [todo, todoMeta] = hatchedReactRest.Todo.useOne({ id })
todo.complete //-> true, false or null
```

## Grid Behavior

The text `true` or `false` will be presented in the grid. If the value is `null`, no value will be presented in the grid.

![Grid Example](https://github.com/bitovi/hatchify/assets/78602/ddbf26a1-180b-4fc7-a483-fde52dc4fce9)

## Form Behavior

`boolean()` will produce a [`<input type=checkbox>`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/input/checkbox) control. `null` will be treated as unchecked.

## Query string behavior

If `required` is `false`, filtering `null` values is handled like the following:

- `filter[name][$eq]=%00` will filter records where name is absent.
- `filter[name][$eq]=null` will filter records where name equals the string `null`.
