doc/attribute-types/string.md, before:

# string({min, max, references, default, required})

Defines an attribute as being a string type.

```ts
export const Todo: PartialSchema = {
  name: "Todo",
  attributes: {
    name: string({ required: true }),
  },
}
```

## Parameters

- `default` [{String}] - The default value of the attribute. Example: `string({default: "USA"})`
- `max` [{Number=225}] - The maximum number of characters allowed. Defaults to 255. Example: `string({max: 1023})`
- `min` [{Number=0}] - The minimum number of characters allowed. Defaults to 0. Example: `string({min: 1})`
- `references` - [See References]()
- `required` [{Boolean=false}] - If the attribute must be provided.

## Form Controls

`string()` with `max` of 255 and less will produce a standard text input like: `<input type=text>`.

`string()` with `max` of 256 and more will show a : `<textarea>`.

If `required` is `false`, empty strings will be treated as `null` values.

## Query string behavior

If `required` is `false`, filtering `null` values is handled like the following:
`filter[complete][$eq]=%00` where `%00` represents the encoded `null` value, or `filter[complete][$eq]=null`.

Commit message:

update the docs for string and boolean filters

doc/attribute-types/string.md, after:

# string({min, max, references, default, required})

Defines an attribute as being a string type.

```ts
export const Todo: PartialSchema = {
  name: "Todo",
  attributes: {
    name: string({ required: true }),
  },
}
```

## Parameters

- `default` [{String}] - The default value of the attribute. Example: `string({default: "USA"})`
- `max` [{Number=225}] - The maximum number of characters allowed. Defaults to 255. Example: `string({max: 1023})`
- `min` [{Number=0}] - The minimum number of characters allowed. Defaults to 0. Example: `string({min: 1})`
- `references` - [See References]()
- `required` [{Boolean=false}] - If the attribute must be provided.

## Form Controls

`string()` with `max` of 255 and less will produce a standard text input like: `<input type=text>`.

`string()` with `max` of 256 and more will show a : `<textarea>`.

If `required` is `false`, empty strings will be treated as `null` values.

## Query string behavior

If `required` is `false`, filtering `null` values is handled like the following:

- `filter[name][$eq]=%00` will filter records where name is absent.
- `filter[name][$eq]=null` will filter records where name equals the string `null`.
