doc/schema/attribute-types/boolean.md, before:

# boolean({default, required})

Defines an attribute as being a boolean.

```ts
export const Todo = {
  name: "Todo",
  attributes: {
    complete: boolean({ required: true }),
  },
} satisfies PartialSchema
```

## Parameters

| key        | description                                                                   |   type    | optional | default |
| ---------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :-------: | :------: | :-----: |
| `default`  | The default value of the attribute. <br/> Example: `boolean({default: true})` | `Boolean` |   Yes    |         |
| `required` | If the attribute must be provided. <br/> Example: `boolean({required: true})` | `Boolean` |   Yes    | `false` |

## Database and Sequelize Behavior

The `boolean` type will create a sequelize [DataTypes.BOOLEAN](https://sequelize.org/docs/v6/core-concepts/model-basics/#boolean) column.

## Middleware Behavior

### Querying Data

For booleans, use `true`, `false`, and `%00` in your queries as follows:

```js
GET /api/todos?complete=true  // all complete todos
GET /api/todos?complete=%00  // all todos with null as the complete value 🛑
GET /api/todos?complete=false // all false todos
```

Any other value will return a service error.

Checkout the [compatibility table](../../filtering-data/README.md#compatibility) for what operators can be used with booleans.

### Data Response

Boolean data will be returned as `true`, `false`, or `null` as follows:

```js
{
  data: {
    ...
    attributes: {
      complete: true
    }
  }
}
```

### Mutating Data

When creating or updating a boolean attribute, `true`, `false`, or `null` must be provided. Any other value will return a service error.

## React Rest Behavior

Similar to the middleware, you MUST provide react rest models a `true`, `false`, or `null` value. Likewise, they will always return these values:

```ts
Todo.createOne({ attributes: { complete: true } })

const [todo, todoMeta] = hatchedReactRest.Todo.useOne({ id })
todo.complete //-> true, false or null
```

## Grid Behavior

The text `true` or `false` will be presented in the grid. If the value is `null`, no value will be presented in the grid.

![Grid Example](https://github.com/bitovi/hatchify/assets/78602/ddbf26a1-180b-4fc7-a483-fde52dc4fce9)

## Form Behavior 🛑

`boolean()` will produce a [`<input type=checkbox>`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/input/checkbox) control. `null` will be treated as unchecked.

Commit message:

Hatch 507: Unify schema docs terminology (#407)
* Changed "Database & Sequelize Behavior" terminology to "Database Implications"

* Changed "Middleware Behavior" terminology to "API Implications"

* Broke down "API Implications" section information into "Querying Data" and "Data Response" subheadings

* Updated "Grid" terminology to "Data Grid"

* Large number of misc. formatting consistency updates

doc/schema/attribute-types/boolean.md, after:

# boolean({default, required})

Defines an attribute as being a boolean.

```ts
export const Todo = {
  name: "Todo",
  attributes: {
    complete: boolean({ required: true }),
  },
} satisfies PartialSchema
```

## Parameters

| key        | description                                                                   |   type    | optional | default |
| ---------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :-------: | :------: | :-----: |
| `default`  | The default value of the attribute. <br/> Example: `boolean({default: true})` | `Boolean` |   Yes    |         |
| `required` | If the attribute must be provided. <br/> Example: `boolean({required: true})` | `Boolean` |   Yes    | `false` |

## Database Implications

The `boolean` type will create a sequelize [DataTypes.BOOLEAN](https://sequelize.org/docs/v6/core-concepts/model-basics/#boolean) column.

## API Implications

### Querying Data

For booleans, use `true`, `false`, and `%00` in your queries as follows:

```js
GET /api/todos?complete=true // all complete todos

GET /api/todos?complete=%00 // all todos with null as the complete value 🛑

GET /api/todos?complete=false // all false todos
```

Any other value will return a service error.

Checkout the [compatibility table](../../filtering-data/README.md#compatibility) for what operators can be used with booleans.

### Data Response

Boolean data will be returned as `true`, `false`, or `null` as follows:

```js
{
  data: {
    ...
    attributes: {
      complete: true
    }
  }
}
```

### Mutating Data

When creating or updating a boolean attribute, `true`, `false`, or `null` must be provided. Any other value will return a service error.

## React Rest Behavior

Similar to the API, you MUST provide react rest models a `true`, `false`, or `null` value. Likewise, they will always return these values:

```ts
Todo.createOne({ attributes: { complete: true } })

const [todo, todoMeta] = hatchedReactRest.Todo.useOne({ id })
todo.complete //-> true, false or null
```

## Data Grid Behavior

The text `true` or `false` will be presented in the data grid. If the value is `null`, no value will be presented in the data grid.

![Data Grid Example](https://github.com/bitovi/hatchify/assets/78602/ddbf26a1-180b-4fc7-a483-fde52dc4fce9)

## Form Behavior 🛑

`boolean()` will produce a [`<input type=checkbox>`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/input/checkbox) control. `null` will be treated as unchecked.
