doc/schema/attribute-types/datetime.md, before:

# datetime({min, max, default, primary, unique, required, step})

Defines an attribute as being a date type that includes the **time**.

```ts
export const Todo = {
  name: "Todo",
  attributes: {
    dueDate: datetime({ required: true }),
  },
} satisfies PartialSchema
```

Use [dateonly](./dateonly.md) for a date type without time.

## Parameters

| key        | description                                                                                          |      type      | optional |   default   |
| ---------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :------------: | :------: | :---------: |
| `default`  | The default value of the attribute. <br/> Example: `datetime({default: 2023-10-02T21:16:15.349Z})`   |     `Date`     |   Yes    | `undefined` |
| `required` | If the attribute must be provided. <br/> Example: `datetime({required: true})`                       |   `Boolean`    |   Yes    |   `false`   |
| `primary`  | If the attribute is a primary key. <br/> Example: `datetime({primary: true})`                        |   `Boolean`    |   Yes    |   `false`   |
| `unique`   | If the attribute must be unique. <br/> Example: `datetime({unique: true})`                           |   `Boolean`    |   Yes    |   `false`   |
| `max`      | The max date allowed. <br/> Example: `datetime({max: new Date()})`, `datetime({max: 1696283660000})` | `Date, number` |   Yes    | `undefined` |
| `min`      | The min date allowed. <br/> Example: `datetime({min: new Date()})`, `datetime({min: 1696283660000})` | `Date, number` |   Yes    | `undefined` |
| `step`     | The spacing between dates in either milliseconds or "day" <br/> Example: `datetime({step: "day"})`   |    `"day"`     |   Yes    | `undefined` |

## Database and Sequelize Behavior

The `datetime` type will create sequelize [DataTypes.DATE](https://sequelize.org/docs/v6/core-concepts/model-basics/#dates) column.

## Middleware Behavior

### Querying Data

For dates, use a `1990-12-31T06:00:00.000Z` value, in your queries as follows:

GET /api/todos?filter[dueDate][$eq]=2023-12-01T20%3A00%3A00.000Z //all todos with a due date that matches 2023-12-01T20%3A00%3A00.000Z

GET /api/todos?filter[dueDate][$gte]=2023-12-01T20%3A03%3A00.000Z //all todos that are on or after 2023-12-01T20%3A00%3A00.000Z

Any other value type will return a service error.

Checkout the [compatibility table](../../filtering-data/README.md#compatibility) for what operators can be used with dates

### Data Response

Datetime data will be returned as `1990-12-31T06:00:00.000Z`, or `null` as follows:

```js
{
  data: {
    ...
    attributes: {
      ...
      dueDate: "1990-12-31T06:00:00.000Z"
    }
  }
}
```

### Mutating Data

When creating or updating a datetime attribute, a valid date in the form of `1990-12-31T06:00:00.000Z`, `1990-12-31`, or `null` must be provided. Any other value type will return a service error.

When `datetime` is given a step of `"day"`, a valid date must be in the form of `1990-12-31`, or `null`, Any other value type will return a service error.

Note: Both formats work with both date types. If a `datetime` attribute is created/updated with `1990-12-31` the returned value will be `1990-12-31T06:00:00.000Z`.

## React Rest Behavior

Similar to the middleware, you MUST provide react rest models a valid date in the form of `1990-12-31T06:00:00.000Z`, `1990-12-31`, or `null` value. Likewise, they will always return these values:

```ts
Todo.createOne({ attributes: { dueDate: "1990-12-31T06:00:00.000Z" } })

const [todo, todoMeta] = hatchedReactRest.Todo.useOne({ id })
todo.dueDate //-> "1990-12-31T06:00:00.000Z", null, or undefined
```

## Grid Behavior

The text date values will be presented in the grid. If the value is `null` or `undefined`, no value will be presented in the grid.

![Grid Example](../../attachments/datetime-column.png)

Note: The displayed values will be formatted to your locale.

## Form Behavior 🛑

`datetime()` will result in a [`<input type="datetime-local">`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/input/datetime-local) control
with minute resolution.

`datetime({ step: "day" })` will result in a [`<input type="datetime-local">`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/input/datetime-local) control
with day resolution.

Commit message:

Hatch 507: Unify schema docs terminology (#407)
* Changed "Database & Sequelize Behavior" terminology to "Database Implications"

* Changed "Middleware Behavior" terminology to "API Implications"

* Broke down "API Implications" section information into "Querying Data" and "Data Response" subheadings

* Updated "Grid" terminology to "Data Grid"

* Large number of misc. formatting consistency updates

doc/schema/attribute-types/datetime.md, after:

# datetime({min, max, default, primary, unique, required, step})

Defines an attribute as being a date type that includes the **time**.

```ts
export const Todo = {
  name: "Todo",
  attributes: {
    dueDate: datetime({ required: true }),
  },
} satisfies PartialSchema
```

Use [dateonly](./dateonly.md) for a date type without time.

## Parameters

| key        | description                                                                                          |      type      | optional |   default   |
| ---------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :------------: | :------: | :---------: |
| `default`  | The default value of the attribute. <br/> Example: `datetime({default: 2023-10-02T21:16:15.349Z})`   |     `Date`     |   Yes    | `undefined` |
| `required` | If the attribute must be provided. <br/> Example: `datetime({required: true})`                       |   `Boolean`    |   Yes    |   `false`   |
| `primary`  | If the attribute is a primary key. <br/> Example: `datetime({primary: true})`                        |   `Boolean`    |   Yes    |   `false`   |
| `unique`   | If the attribute must be unique. <br/> Example: `datetime({unique: true})`                           |   `Boolean`    |   Yes    |   `false`   |
| `max`      | The max date allowed. <br/> Example: `datetime({max: new Date()})`, `datetime({max: 1696283660000})` | `Date, number` |   Yes    | `undefined` |
| `min`      | The min date allowed. <br/> Example: `datetime({min: new Date()})`, `datetime({min: 1696283660000})` | `Date, number` |   Yes    | `undefined` |
| `step`     | The spacing between dates in either milliseconds or "day" <br/> Example: `datetime({step: "day"})`   |    `"day"`     |   Yes    | `undefined` |

## Database Implications

The `datetime` type will create sequelize [DataTypes.DATE](https://sequelize.org/docs/v6/core-concepts/model-basics/#dates) column.

## API Implications

### Querying Data

For dates, use a `1990-12-31T06:00:00.000Z` value, in your queries as follows:

```js
GET /api/todos?filter[dueDate][$eq]=2023-12-01T20%3A00%3A00.000Z // all todos with a due date that matches 2023-12-01T20%3A00%3A00.000Z

GET /api/todos?filter[dueDate][$gte]=2023-12-01T20%3A03%3A00.000Z // all todos that are on or after 2023-12-01T20%3A00%3A00.000Z
```

Any other value type will return a service error.

Checkout the [compatibility table](../../filtering-data/README.md#compatibility) for what operators can be used with dates

### Data Response

Datetime data will be returned as `1990-12-31T06:00:00.000Z`, or `null` as follows:

```js
{
  data: {
    ...
    attributes: {
      ...
      dueDate: "1990-12-31T06:00:00.000Z"
    }
  }
}
```

### Mutating Data

When creating or updating a datetime attribute, a valid date in the form of `1990-12-31T06:00:00.000Z`, `1990-12-31`, or `null` must be provided. Any other value type will return a service error.

When `datetime` is given a step of `"day"`, a valid date must be in the form of `1990-12-31`, or `null`, Any other value type will return a service error.

Note: Both formats work with both date types. If a `datetime` attribute is created/updated with `1990-12-31` the returned value will be `1990-12-31T06:00:00.000Z`.

## React Rest Behavior

Similar to the API, you MUST provide react rest models a valid date in the form of `1990-12-31T06:00:00.000Z`, `1990-12-31`, or `null` value. Likewise, they will always return these values:

```ts
Todo.createOne({ attributes: { dueDate: "1990-12-31T06:00:00.000Z" } })

const [todo, todoMeta] = hatchedReactRest.Todo.useOne({ id })
todo.dueDate //-> "1990-12-31T06:00:00.000Z", null, or undefined
```

## Data Grid Behavior

The text date values will be presented in the data grid. If the value is `null` or `undefined`, no value will be presented in the data grid.

![Data Grid Example](../../attachments/datetime-column.png)

Note: The displayed values will be formatted to your locale.

## Form Behavior 🛑

`datetime()` will result in a [`<input type="datetime-local">`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/input/datetime-local) control
with minute resolution.

`datetime({ step: "day" })` will result in a [`<input type="datetime-local">`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/input/datetime-local) control
with day resolution.
